[core] update to c++20 (#7299)
organicmaps/organicmaps: CMakeLists.txt

endif()

# GCC 8.1 is required to support <charconv> header inclusion in base/string_utils.hpp, otherwise 7.0 is sufficient

> # GCC 13 is required to support std::format in map/place_page_info.cpp

Reviewer: Did anyone test std::format already on iOS 12 and Android 5 devices?

endif()

# GCC 8.1 is required to support <charconv> header inclusion in base/string_utils.hpp, otherwise 7.0 is sufficient
# GCC 13 is required to support std::format in map/place_page_info.cpp

> if (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID MATCHES "GNU" AND CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_VERSION VERSION_LESS 13.0)

Author: yes 😅 i guess it could be added in that PR, but i thought it was just easier to add it now

> if (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID MATCHES "GNU" AND CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_VERSION VERSION_LESS 13.0)

Author: removed

  set(CMAKE_JOB_POOL_PRECOMPILE_HEADER custom)
endif()

> # GCC 8.1 is required to support <charconv> header inclusion in base/string_utils.hpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# GCC 10.0 is required to support <charconv> header inclusion in base/string_utils.hpp
```

Is GCC version mentioned somewhere in the Linux build docs? Should we mention it explicitly there too?

Reviewer 2: > Should we mention it explicitly there too?

Yes, but IMHO that can also go into a separate PR.

if (CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID MATCHES "GNU" AND CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_VERSION VERSION_LESS 14.0)

>   message(FATAL_ERROR "Minimum supported g++ version is 14.0, yours is ${CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_VERSION}")

Author: this is correct, right?

Reviewer: No, please check [this table](https://gcc.gnu.org/projects/cxx-status.html), and it would be great to also test on different GCC versions. Highly likely that gcc-10 or 11 would be ok. You can experiment locally in this PR by adding other gcc version matrix values in the .github workflow check.

Author: checked, gcc-9 fails but gcc-10 works, have updated PR 👍️

>   message(FATAL_ERROR "Minimum supported g++ version is 10.0, yours is ${CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_VERSION}")

Reviewer 2: How do we expect to maintain this minimum `10.0`, if we don't even test in the CI with `10.0`?
Next PR going in after this, can add something, which suddenly needs `14.0` and nobody even notices, because that still passes the CI.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: remove this check altogether.

Reviewer: This check will save us and other contributors time debugging build issues when older compilers are used.

We can switch from clang-18 to gcc-10 in the Linux check `Linux no unity build` job.

Reviewer 3: You can express your usage requirements in CMake using [target_compile_features](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake-compile-features.7.html) together with things from [CMAKE_CXX_KNOWN_FEATURES](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/prop_gbl/CMAKE_CXX_KNOWN_FEATURES.html).
That way you don't need to check anything - CMake will do it for you.

Reviewer: What exactly do you propose to add?

Reviewer 3: I don't propose to add anything, I just don't think this check solves any real problem.

Reviewer: Waste of time is a _real_ problem, especially at scale.

Reviewer 2: Unfurtunately `CMAKE_CXX_KNOWN_FEATURES`, doesn't have individual feature support for C++20, and even if it had I don't think it could really subsitute actually testing, and currently we only test something that we could call "upper bound" compilers.
I propose to either split or change the [linux-matrix](https://github.com/organicmaps/organicmaps/blob/master/.github/workflows/linux-check.yaml#L96), so it tests lower bound and upper bound compilers, not just the upper bound as it is currently.
In any case line 169  `# GCC 8.1 is required` should be changed in this PR.
